Dark Days

In the seminal action adventure role-playing video game Dark Souls, the player assumes the role of a stoic, undead sadboi hero who dies over and over and over again. This expectation of failure is the foundation of the game's mechanics and narrative. Whereas most games present a "Game Over" screen as a "bad ending," dying in Dark Souls is canonized. The player will die, and endure resurrection, many times in pursuit of their ultimate goal. The world offers the player varied and useful tools to help them die less often, but regardless of equipment, their progress and success depend mostly on their human ability to pay attention and learn from failure. They must contend with frustration, tedium, and chaos they cannot control in order to see it all to the end. Through all the considerable challenges of the game, the player possesses a small set of skills available to none of the enemies: Analysis, synthesis, and reaction. Even the most massive and indomitably powerful bosses follow rote patterns of behavior. Some might be able to kill the player with a single blow, but with enough practice, the player can approach and dodge every single strike.

Currently in my life, following a cataclysmic dissolution of understanding and identity, I have struggled to find tools that will help me see it all to the end. Looking at my past, and all the time I wasted, inflicts more psychic damage than I know how to share. Staring out at the violent and challenging world, something I've finally begun to understand, threatens to overwhelm me with feelings of weakness and fear. I feel like I have died, except I'm still here, every day. An undead sadboi.

I can see the shape of the world I inhabit, its rules, expectations, promises. I have suffered the madness of fear it can inspire. Playing the game without using any of my most precious abilities, analysis and synthesis and reaction, led me to forfeit my entire identity, let me to wander directly into the worst places I have ever seen.

Lately I've made attempts to reconfigure the way I approach the narrative of my identity in the context of the world I inhabit. The scope of challenge is too vast for me to make any assumptions about how to see it to the end correctly. But I now know what living hell feels like; there must be an inverse, the upright tarot card of my life. I can perceive what that end must feel like, and in order to reach it, before I can even see all the skills I'll need to become who I am supposed to be, I have to first defeat the enemies nearest me. Before I can make it to the next bonfire, I must analyze the behavior of my enemies, synthesize this learning into my wider understanding of the mechanisms of the world, and react to the patterns of my enemies in order to defeat them.

Every night, when I go to sleep and my conscious mind flicks off, my personage ceases to exist. I dissolve back into brainsoup. In a sense, I die, and the next morning I am resurrected. Overwhelmingly, I awake at the exact same bonfire I saw the previous morning. On rare occasions this bonfire will change. I would like to continue moving toward the next bonfire. I would like to take my earned knowledge about my enemies and use it against them, to find power and safety and fulfillment.

It would be easy to focus on the analysis of perceived external enemies--the world is violent and challenging--but I have learned to see this as a misdirection, a path that strays toward the madness of fear. If the end I seek is to find my true identity, to understand what the correct shape of my life is meant to be, then I cannot find it anywhere except in the world of my own mind and heart and soul. And in this context, no one is my enemy. Everyone else is their own player character, others journeying just like me.

My enemies exist on the inside. Their attack patterns are my negative behaviors, my problematic coping mechanisms. Their tools are doubt and fear and hatred. They will wound me over and over and over again as I try to see this through to the end. Often, when I dissolve into brainsoup and perish each night, I will be dying in defeat. But I can learn, and I can find tools of my own. Tools to help me defend. Tools to help me heal. Tools to help me maximize my strengths. With each day as a distinct and complete challenge, an immediate struggle for survival in the larger context of a challenging and violent world, I can finally begin to approach the future with determination and fortitude.

Today I fought my enemies well.