Love and Worship

They say that God is Love.

I grew up with a fairly straightforward, strained relationship with the concept of God. My hometown, nestled deep in the verdant heart of American promises and protection, looked similar to most small towns across the country. The people who lived there behaved the way you would expect and believed what you would expect. Nobody there ever managed to give to me an understanding of spirituality that made sense.

Instead of ever taking the time to answer this question for myself, I assumed that the constructs they had all tried to impart simply carried no value.

It's funny, all the things the human consciousness needs in order to sustain itself in a world that functions like this.

If a god is a construct of the human mind, an idea about human behavior translated into story and shared through culture, then it seems to me like we all end up worshiping gods whether we want to or not. Worship, here, meaning the human act of giving time, thought, and attention to some idea or desire. "I offer up these resources to this pursuit in order to reap this reward." And in that context, I can't see how we don't all spend every moment of our lives worshiping some god or other. Gods will respond to worship, that's part of the deal. They see our behavior and give us what they promise. Our behavior embodies their archetype, and we tell their cyclic story over again.

I don't think this is the only kind of god that directs the fate of human lives in the world, but I think, when it comes to the things over which we have active control, we have no choice but to worship a god.

I think it's really important to give a great deal of thought to which gods we worship with our autonomy in the world. I've found it to be hard work and continual work, but I've also found that when I don't give it any consideration at all I make myself available to gods who will take all my worth from me. They promised it from the beginning. I have had to build so much self-awareness, up from so little, in order to have any chance at understanding the shape of what I've worshiped. It is a reflection of what is inside of me. 

I think that to worship anything is to love it.

I think this holds true in the other direction as well.

I want to love myself, and I want to love my friends. I want to tell a story with my life that makes me feel correct, like I have chosen the right places to put my time and thought and attention. In order to fulfill my dreams, I need to worship gods that ask a lot. I need to not just believe in them, but actively worship them, show them through my actions that I am trying to embody them. If I make different choices, that isn't worship.

I will encounter so many things at so many scales of power that I have no control over, but I have control over the story that I tell with my actions.

I am finding the god inside me, and I want to help my friends find theirs.