Ludonarrative Dissonance

Play is simple and amorphous, a recreational activity not necessary for acquiring survival resources from the natural world. A game is structured play, that is, play with rules. Rules demand learning--it isn't possible to adhere to rules without internalizing their dictates and allowing them to shape an understanding of the actions allowed within their context. By imagining a context where all actions are available to all players at any moment, it's easy to see how this experience cannot be a game: The win condition is always accessible, and thereby robbed of any meaning. By limiting the scope of contextually available actions, a game forces players to consider their approach to the win condition, giving rise to individually derived strategies. Because they inherently require learning, games are powerful tools for teaching.

Narratives are similarly structured concepts. Without the perception and analysis of an audience, a chronology of choice and consequence is simply a series of events, devoid of underlying meaning, as meaning is an individually, internally devised conclusion based on collected data. Without the internal simulation of the human psyche to perceive the correlation between events, nothing can give rise to narrative. Narratives do not organically occur in the natural world. Things simply happen. The human engine, in its pursuit of understanding, assigns meaning to the things that it witnesses, based on the understanding it is able to derive regarding the connection between action and consequence. In this way, a narrative can be considered a posthumous structure applied to a chronology of events in order to derive some learning from them.

In these ways, games and narratives share fundamental similarities.

Ludonarrative dissonance is the discord that occurs when a narrative, applied on top of a game, attempts to teach lessons that run contrary to those of the game itself.

I don't think there's any ludonarrative dissonance in the game of the natural world.

In its absolute and ineffable omnipresence, the game of the natural world defies questioning. This structured set of contextually available actions dictates the progress and experiences of every living thing through time. These rules make themselves available to be analyzed, deconstructed, and strategized against, but nothing can change them. It would be foolish, when looking at something so universal and inexorable, to assume a flaw or lack, or some room for circumvention. The game must be played, and the learning it demands is one of the only meaningfully accessible truths available to the human engine. By understanding how the game demands that we engage with it, how it instructs us, we understand our place in the natural world. We understand what it means to be ourselves, and what it takes the reach the win condition. There are no other rules, no divergent lessons. Everything guides us toward this unified understanding.

I do think, though, that the human engine, in its perpetual attempt to derive an understanding of the connection between action and consequence, has the capacity to apply a manufactured ludonarrative dissonance on top of the game of the natural world. Because of the inevitability of the shared human experience, we are all always telling a narrative with our life, whether or not we perceive this. We all have an audience, even if just the audience inside our own minds, and that audience is constantly analyzing the actions we take in order to build the narrative of our personage. Literally, the people we are, come from the actions we take in the context of the rules dictated by the game of the natural world. By focusing on the wrong things and learning the wrong lessons, it is possible for us to become the wrong kinds of people. This doesn't mean, "bad people," but truly, "wrong people," or, "not the people that we have the capacity to fully become inside the context of the game and its rules."

In the past I lived a life of extreme ludonarrative dissonance. I thought that the structure of my internal narrative superseded the rules of the game of the natural world. I refused to internalize any real understanding of how things worked, and because of this, I needed constant confirmation from the internal structures of other people to validate my own worldview. I learned the wrong lessons and became dependent on fantasy in order to survive. Any time the rules of the game demanded that I play correctly, I was unable to participate, and fled to coping mechanisms.

Becoming the wrong person almost destroyed me.

I'm done learning the wrong things.