Struggle

I think that Kentaro Miura died happy.

When I first heard of his passing, I reacted with sadness and disappointment. The creator of one of my favorite works of all time died so young, and without getting to see his art through to the end. Surely, this was a tragedy.

I've spent a lot of time recently examining my life, assessing the state I've allowed it to fall into, comparing what I've accomplished against what I want to accomplish. I want to create art that moves people. The creation of art, like all creation, requires a consumption of resources and output of effort. The more meaningful and impactful the creation, the more resources required. Over the past decade and a half I've squandered nearly all my resources, especially and most critically, my time.

This waste of time resulted directly from the decisions and inaction of the person that I had allowed myself to become. Without a centered self and without any defenses, I gave away everything that I had. I allowed other people to define who I was, in ways that suited their own personal agendas. By the end of it I had almost nothing on the inside left to hold onto.

In Berserk, the center of Guts's self sits squarely at the intersection of two traits: An adamant refusal to sacrifice any part of his inner world or autonomy for anyone else, and an unflinching willingness to fight as hard as possible to keep anyone from forcing him to make that sacrifice. Guts isn't a struggler for nothing. He struggles to keep his heart sacred, a treasure undiluted by the desires of others. He fights at every single moment for this dream, and through his will is able to rise and surmount impossible challenges.

I think that Kentaro Miura realized early on exactly what it takes to have such an indomitable center of self, and what it looks like when a person shrinks away from that challenge. I look at his body of work and see the creation of someone who dedicated every waking moment of their life to telling a story about themselves and their dreams. I see a body of work that has touched lives at a scale I can hardly comprehend, that has itself influenced countless other works, my own included. I think that Kentaro Miura lived each day doing exactly the things that he wanted to do, spending his time in a version of reality where he could truly live the fantasy of being an awesome guy with a giant fuckoff sword who takes care of all his friends. I think that's so fucking cool.

I want to live a life like that.

I want to struggle at all cost for my dreams.

May death never stop you, Mr. Miura.